Updating ProblemDetails docs (#27400)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/fundamentals/error-handling.md

## Model state errors

For information about how to handle model state errors, see [Model binding](xref:mvc/models/model-binding) and [Model validation](xref:mvc/models/validation).

<a name="pds7"></a>

## Problem details

[Problem Details](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7807.html) are not the only response format to describe a HTTP API error, however, they are commonly used to report errors for HTTP APIs.

The problem details service implements the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IProblemDetailsService> interface, which supports creating problem details in ASP.NET Core. The [`AddProblemDetails`](/dotnet/api/microsoft.extensions.dependencyinjection.problemdetailsservicecollectionextensions.addproblemdetails?view=aspnetcore-7.0&preserve-view=true) extension method on <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.IServiceCollection> register the default `IProblemDetailsService` implementation.

> In ASP.NET Core apps, the following middleware generates problem details HTTP responses when [`AddProblemDetails`](/dotnet/api/microsoft.extensions.dependencyinjection.problemdetailsservicecollectionextensions.addproblemdetails?view=aspnetcore-7.0&preserve-view=true) is called, except when not accepted by the client:

Author: Basically, when the `Accepts` does not include one of the expected values. Eg.:https://source.dot.net/#Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Extensions/DefaultProblemDetailsWriter.cs,28

> In ASP.NET Core apps, the following middleware generates problem details HTTP responses when [`AddProblemDetails`](/dotnet/api/microsoft.extensions.dependencyinjection.problemdetailsservicecollectionextensions.addproblemdetails?view=aspnetcore-7.0&preserve-view=true) is called, except when not accepted by the client:

Author: Is that better now?

> In ASP.NET Core apps, the following middleware generates problem details HTTP responses when [`AddProblemDetails`](/dotnet/api/microsoft.extensions.dependencyinjection.problemdetailsservicecollectionextensions.addproblemdetails?view=aspnetcore-7.0&preserve-view=true) is called, except when not accepted by the client:

Reviewer: > except when the [`Accept` request HTTP header](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Accept) doesn't include one of the content types supported by the registered <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IProblemDetailsWriter> (default: `application/json`):

Yes 😃

* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Diagnostics.ExceptionHandlerMiddleware>: Generates a problem details response when a custom handler is not defined.
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Diagnostics.StatusCodePagesMiddleware>: Generates a problem details response by default.

> * <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Diagnostics.DeveloperExceptionPageMiddleware>: Generates a problem details response in development when `text/html` is not accepted.

Author: Done

The following code configures the app to generate a problem details response for all HTTP client and server error responses that ***don't have a body content yet***:

:::code language="csharp" source="error-handling/samples/7.x/ErrorHandlingSample/Snippets/Program.cs" id="snippet_AddProblemDetails" highlight="3":::

The next section shows how to customize the problem details response body.

<a name="cpd7"></a>

> ### Customizing problem details
> 
> TODO

Reviewer 2: Per style guide, avoid ing -> Customize, not Customizing

```suggestion
<!--
### Customize problem details
See https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/issues/27416
TODO
-->
```

#### `CustomizeProblemDetails` operation

The generated problem details can be customized using <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.ProblemDetailsOptions.CustomizeProblemDetails> and are applied to all auto-generated problem details.

The following code uses <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.ProblemDetailsOptions> to set <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.ProblemDetailsOptions.CustomizeProblemDetails>:

:::code language="csharp" source="error-handling/samples/7.x/ErrorHandlingSample/Snippets/Program.cs" id="snippet_CustomizeProblemDetails" highlight="3-5":::

> For example, a `HTTP Status 400 Bad Request` endpoint result produces the following problem details response body

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, an [`HTTP Status 400 Bad Request`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/400) endpoint result produces the following problem details response body:
```

```json
{
  "type": "https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc9110#section-15.5.1",
  "title": "Bad Request",
  "status": 400,
  "nodeId": "my-machine-name"
}
```

#### Custom `IProblemDetailsWriter`

An <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.IProblemDetailsWriter> implementation can be created for advanced customizations:

:::code language="csharp" source="~/../AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/fundamentals/middleware/problem-details-service/SampleProblemDetailsWriter.cs" :::

#### Problem details from Middleware

> An alternative approach to using <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.ProblemDetailsOptions> to set <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.ProblemDetailsOptions.CustomizeProblemDetails> is to set the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.ProblemDetailsContext.ProblemDetails> in middleware. A problem details response can be written by calling [`IProblemDetailsService.WriteAsync`](/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.http.iproblemdetailsservice.writeasync?view=aspnetcore-7.0&preserve-view=true):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An alternative approach to using <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.ProblemDetailsOptions> with <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.ProblemDetailsOptions.CustomizeProblemDetails> is to set the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.ProblemDetailsContext.ProblemDetails> in middleware. A problem details response can be written by calling [`IProblemDetailsService.WriteAsync`](/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.http.iproblemdetailsservice.writeasync?view=aspnetcore-7.0&preserve-view=true):
```

:::code language="csharp" source="~/../AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/fundamentals/middleware/problem-details-service/Program.cs" id="snippet_middleware" highlight="5,19-40":::

In the preceding code, the minimal API endpoints `/divide` and `/squareroot` return the expected custom problem response on error input.

> The API controller endpoints return the default problem response on error input, not the custom problem response. The default problem response is returned because the API controller has written to the response stream, [Problem details for error status codes](/aspnet/core/web-api/#problem-details-for-error-status-codes-1), before [`IProblemDetailsService.WriteAsync`](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/ce2db7ea0b161fc5eb35710fca6feeafeeac37bc/src/Http/Http.Extensions/src/ProblemDetailsService.cs#L24) is called and the response will not be written again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The API controller endpoints return the default problem response on error input, not the custom problem response. The default problem response is returned because the API controller has written to the response stream, [Problem details for error status codes](/aspnet/core/web-api/#problem-details-for-error-status-codes-1), before [`IProblemDetailsService.WriteAsync`](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/ce2db7ea0b161fc5eb35710fca6feeafeeac37bc/src/Http/Http.Extensions/src/ProblemDetailsService.cs#L24) is called and the response is **not** written again.
```

Reviewer: This section is hard to parse.

Rough suggestion:
"Controllers ignore customized problem details on error status codes due to (link). In order to customize problem details for Controllers (blah)."`

The following `ValuesController` returns <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.BadRequestResult>, which writes to the response stream and therefore prevents the custom problem response from being returned.

:::code language="csharp" source="~/../AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/fundamentals/middleware/problem-details-service/Controllers/ValuesController.cs" id="snippet"  highlight="9-17,27-35":::

The following `Values3Controller` returns [`ControllerBase.Problem`](/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.mvc.controllerbase.problem) so the expected custom problem result is returned:

:::code language="csharp" source="~/../AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/fundamentals/middleware/problem-details-service/Controllers/ValuesController.cs" id="snippet3"  highlight="16-21":::

## Produce a ProblemDetails payload for exceptions

Consider the following app:

:::code language="csharp" source="~/../AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/fundamentals/middleware/problem-details-service/Program.cs" id="snippet_apishort" highlight="4,8":::

> In non-development environments, when an exception occurs, the following a standardized [ProblemDetails response](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7807) is returned to the client:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In non-development environments, when an exception occurs, the following is a standard [ProblemDetails response](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7807) that is returned to the client:
```

```json
{
"type":"https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-6.6.1",
"title":"An error occurred while processing your request.",
"status":500,"traceId":"00-b644<snip>-00"
}
```

> For most apps, the preceding code is all that for exceptions, however, the following section shows how get more detailed problem responses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For most apps, the preceding code is all that's needed for exceptions, however, the following section shows how get more detailed problem responses.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For most apps, the preceding code is all that's needed for exceptions, however, the following section shows how to get more detailed problem responses.
```

An alternative to a [custom exception handler page](xref:fundamentals/error-handling#exception-handler-page) is to provide a lambda to <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.ExceptionHandlerExtensions.UseExceptionHandler%2A>. Using a lambda allows access to the error and writing a problem details response with [`IProblemDetailsService.WriteAsync`](/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.http.iproblemdetailsservice.writeasync?view=aspnetcore-7.0&preserve-view=true):

:::code language="csharp" source="~/../AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/fundamentals/middleware/problem-details-service/Program.cs" id="snippet_lambda" :::

> [!WARNING]
> Do **not** serve sensitive error information to clients. Serving errors is a security risk.

> [Hellang.Middleware.ProblemDetails](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Hellang.Middleware.ProblemDetails/) is a 3rd party problem details middleware Nuget package.

Author: I add additional information. Let me know if good enough.

> [Hellang.Middleware.ProblemDetails](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Hellang.Middleware.ProblemDetails/) is a 3rd party problem details middleware Nuget package.

Reviewer 3: Looks good, thanks.

```json
{
"type":"https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-6.6.1",
"title":"An error occurred while processing your request.",
"status":500,"traceId":"00-b644<snip>-00"
}
```

For most apps, the preceding code is all that's needed for exceptions, however, the following section shows how to get more detailed problem responses.

An alternative to a [custom exception handler page](xref:fundamentals/error-handling#exception-handler-page) is to provide a lambda to <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.ExceptionHandlerExtensions.UseExceptionHandler%2A>. Using a lambda allows access to the error and writing a problem details response with [`IProblemDetailsService.WriteAsync`](/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.http.iproblemdetailsservice.writeasync?view=aspnetcore-7.0&preserve-view=true):

:::code language="csharp" source="~/../AspNetCore.Docs.Samples/fundamentals/middleware/problem-details-service/Program.cs" id="snippet_lambda" :::

> [!WARNING]
> Do **not** serve sensitive error information to clients. Serving errors is a security risk.

> An alternative approach to generate problem details is to use the 3rd party Nuget package [Hellang.Middleware.ProblemDetails](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Hellang.Middleware.ProblemDetails/) that can be use to map exceptions and client errors to a problem details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An alternative approach to generate problem details is to use the 3rd party Nuget package [Hellang.Middleware.ProblemDetails](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Hellang.Middleware.ProblemDetails/) that can be used to map exceptions and client errors to problem details.
```
